# Serverless WebApp Boilerplate with Nx monorepo, Angular, NestJs

## Code Architecture

"Convention over configuration."

- separate into Apps and Libs. Apps are just a collection of feature modules and a shell module, backend and frontend. Apps can also be Lambda Functions, then they have a simple service defining the entry handler function.
- Libs are separated into backend, frontend, and shared (API interfaces only). There are data-access libs (APIs, database, SQS, etc.), UI (frontend only), util and feature libs.
- the database module consists of a entities and query-services, grouped in folders by feature name. There's a single module importing all entities and providing all query services. A barrel file for entities, query-services and interfaces makes importing query services and entities in the module easy, so it doesn't have to be defined multiple times when adding (done by schematics anyway).
- backend feature libs consist of a module, service and controller.
- shared/api-interfaces is the lib for sharing the controller input and output elements. The controller doesn't even have to be touched once in the whole development workflow, everything is generated by schematics. The module service always imports the database service by default and has methods for simple CRUD directly forwarded from the controller, with same input/output typings as the controller.
- frontend libs consist by default of a module importing the FontAwesomeModule and a setup constructor for adding icon libs. There's also a component for list and detail view, connected to the NGXS store and actions for loading the list and more details for single item. The store also manages pagination, and the list component is paginated by default. The list view shows a list of cards with key:value for every item. The state object has the handler for the load actions and calls the corresponding API functions with the feature name.
- all feature libs, modules, services, components, state, api endpoint functions, api interfaces, controllers, controller routes, controller- and service functions, and entities follow a naming convention by feature name. At least when they are scaffolded by schematics. But also for later insertion of new routes, to make it easier to write schematics.

Basis of all names is: Feature-name in singular: [name] (e.g. "product")

- Frontend lib: libs/frontend/[name]
- Frontend module: [Name]FrontendModule (ProductFrontendModule)
- Frontend List Component: [Name]ListComponent (ProductListComponent)
- Frontend Details Component: [Name]DetailsComponent (ProductDetailsomponent)
- Frontend State: +state/[name].actions and +state/[name].state
- Api Interfaces: Load: Get[Name]ListDto and Get[Name]ListResultDto, Get[Name]DetailsDto and Get[Name]DetailsResultDto, save: Save[Name]Dto and Save[Name]ResultDto, remove: - Remove[Name]Dto
- Backend lib: libs/backend/[name]
- Controller+Module+Service: [Name]BackendModule [Name]Controller [Name]ControllerService
- Controller and service functions: getDetails(id), getList(page,perPage), save(obj), remove(id), update(id, obj)
- Entities: [Name]Entity with default primary generated uuid column "id" and prepared commented date fields and name field for starting quickly
- QueryService: [Name]QueryService with functions like controller service

## 1. Configure

Configure the name of the app in the package.json ("name"), nx.json ("npmScope"), serverless.yml ("service") and angular.json ("prefix").

## How to use

### Technology Stack

- NX monorepo for frontend and backend alike
- Serverless Lambda, ApiGateway, Cognito, RDS PostgreSQL, SQS
- serverless framework with sls-webpack for build, infrastructure as code / deployment / staging
- serverless offline (+sqs)
- each lambda function has it's own folder in the app directory

### Local development

1. (if you need SQS) setup local SQS server

Offline SQS --> download and start a local elasticMQ (SQS-compatible) server: https://github.com/softwaremill/elasticmq

start: ```npm run sqs:offline```

3. setup and configure a cognito user pool + client in your AWS console. Then run the script: ```node scripts/jwk-to-pem.js YOUR_USER_POOL_ID``` with the dev user pool id. Copy result in ```.env``` into COGNITO_PEM

2. Run web app: ```ng serve web-app```

3. Run whole backend infrastructure offline: ```npm run backend:offline``` (runs all lambdas with all different triggers, like Http, schedules, SQS)

### deploy to staging:

Staging uses the database ```comtra-staging``` and production uses ```comtra```, but on the same RDS instance to save costs.

SQS queue, lambdas, API-Gateways, cognito user pool, everything else is duplicated with the naming convention ${self:service}-${self:custom.stage} (see serverless.yml:custom).

TODO before first staging deploy:

1. setup a separate remote database, configure database name in .env.staging
2. deploy backend for staging ```npm run backend:deploy:staging``` --> this automatically inserts the cognito user pool id, cognito client id, and backend api url into ```environment/frontend/environment.staging.ts```
4. run the script: ```node scripts/jwk-to-pem.js YOUR_USER_POOL_ID``` with the staging user pool id --> insert the last printed PEM to the .env.${stage} and in generated lambda (or deploy again)
3. build web app for staging: ```npm run web-app:build:staging```
3. ````npm run web-app:deploy:staging``` will automatically set up the s3 bucket and configure for web hosting, and output the url in the console

### Deploy (prod)

2. run ```npm run backend:deploy:prod``` (builds backend functions with webpack and creates or updates infrastructures, then automatically updates frontend configuration in ```environment/frontend/environment.production.ts``` with cognito user pool, api url, etc.)
1. build the web app: ```npm run web-app:build:prod```
1. deploy the web app (make sure to update the S3 bucket in the npm script): ```npm run web-app:deploy:prod```


### Bucket policy for S3 website hosting (create one bucket for staging and one for prod, change bucket names in npm scripts in package.json):
Replace bucket name at YOUR_BUCKET_NAME_HERE!
```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR_BUCKET_NAME_HERE/*"
        }
    ]
}
```

# Custom Schematics

generate a new custom schematics: (with my template)
```nx workspace-schematic schematic-template <my-schematics-name>```

- generate new entity + query service: ```npm run workspace-schematic -- database-entity [name]```

- generate new backend feature with lib, module, controllers, service, entity (calls database-entity schematic): ```npm run workspace-schematic -- backend-feature [name]```

- generate a new frontend feature:

### Misc: How to remove a big file from all git commits (*this rips out the file from ALL commits, dangerous!*)
```git filter-branch -f --index-filter 'git rm --cached --ignore-unmatch *.jar'```
